When I started this channel I decided to maintain anonymity.
At the time I was still working regularly and didn't want evangelicals
harassing the networks I reported for. But as this channel has become more
popular it seems my credentials are beginning to matter
and now that I plan to do a series on science and the media
and inject some personal opinion they're going to matter even more.
So I've decided to come out of my comfortable cocoon of anonymity,
strip away the cape, the leotard and the budgie smugglers
and reveal my identity. I'm sorry to say it won't be all that exciting
after all the speculation that's been going on and here I am
at a media briefing circa 1993. But let's go back. I started writing for
the British press in South America in the early 1980s
but news was scant and British interest in the news from South America was even
In 1986 I traveled to Japan and found my forte
writing humor. First for Punch and then the Sunday Express and Private Eye.
In 1992 Punch folded after a glorious 150 year history
but my association with Private Eye continued for another 12 years.
In 1988 I was taken on as the Tokyo correspondent for Britain's Sunday
Times newspaper. I also began writing freelance stories
for New Scientist magazine. In 1989 the Tokyo correspondent for New
Scientist left and I took over the role. I continued
writing for New Scientist for the next 16 years.
In 1991 lured by the promise of a weekly column
I quit the Sunday Times and was poached by the Daily Mail.
The column left me plenty of time to freelance. I teamed up with a
photographer who I still consider to be one of the best in the Far East,
Robert MacLeod, and began doing feature stories for Britain's so-called Sunday
supplements. The Sunday Times magazine, The Observer
magazine, and You magazine. In those days they were the magazines
every British writer aspired to. As more assignments came in I found I
was traveling more first around Japan and then to other
parts of the Far East. How I got into broadcasting is a bit
bizarre. I think it was 1992 and I was in the workroom at the Foreign
Correspondence Club in Tokyo. A journalist answered the workroom phone
and it turned out to be Monitor Radio in Boston on the line
wanting someone to do a Q&A. I volunteered to do it
and afterwards Monitor Radio asked if I'd be their regular correspondent
first in Tokyo then the Far East. If it weren't for the barbed wire and the
secret police patrolling in odd-looking punts on the water
Aung San Suu Kyi's lakeside home would be the model of serenity.
She was held prisoner here for seven years until her release last year.
Once people know your work in the media offers start flooding in
So after a year with Monitor Radio I was soon getting assignments from other
radio networks. By the mid 90s I was flying out of the
country about once a month. That's why behind the slopes that lead to
this tranquil temple hundreds of laborers are working to build
tourist walkways and souvenir shops. Army trucks supply the raw material
local people provide the labor. Peter what would be next what would the
Japanese do after announcing this tax cut package?
The big fight is not going to be economic it's going to be political
the prime minister has to actually push this through parliament
now to a certain extent he's put his political reputation on the line
because we've been through the various processes. What are Kim Jong Nam's
relations like with his father? He is I suppose you might say the favored son
he is the son of Kim Jong Il's first wife who is a very famous
North Korean actress and he's highly placed he was working for the North
Korea's national intelligence agency for a year and a half
Political analysts say tension in the Japanese diet is now so high
that Ibuchi may be forced to dissolve parliament and call a general election
Peter Hadfield BBC News Tokyo. Through all of this I was still filing
regularly for New Scientist. Over the 16 years I worked for the
magazine I filed at least one story a week when I wasn't traveling
sometimes it was just a small news piece sometimes a major feature story that
took a week to research and write. The science ranged from robotics and
mechanical engineering to microbiology and geophysics. My work
at New Scientist and my experience in radio
soon led me to regular work with science programs like the BBC's Science in
Action an Australian broadcasting science show
Joining me to discuss these questions and others more intelligently phrased
are three top science journalists joining us from Tokyo Peter Hadfield
hello Peter yes hello from the Daily Telegraph in London
Roger Highfield science editor of that august
newspaper hello roger hello there hi sits back as his wife sells part of
the catch to other villagers
biologist Kent Hortle says the Mekong system is so complex
that even one dam can have a major effect. By now I had an arrangement with
a broadcasting network and a newspaper in most english-speaking countries
except in the United States where I was only working for radio
so I began writing for USA Today to fill the gap
the move into television also got off to a bizarre start
I got a call from the BBC show South Today
they knew my name through BBC radio and asked if I had any experience in
television. Having absolutely no experience at all I
told them yes of course well it's all going off
with remarkable precision and that's hardly surprising
this isn't so much an exercise as it is a performance for the television cameras
inflating even this modest achievement more brazenly than a timball resume
I wormed my way into other tv networks. Since I was already cbc's radio
correspondent I was taken on as correspondent for
cbc television and did a weekly link with a bc-based program called Pacific
Rim Report. After working on a documentary with WTN
and Fuji television Fuji took me on as a sort of voice of
the foreign media in Japan and invaded our home once a month to
quiz me about whatever was the story of the day
and I became a kind of substitute teacher of the international airwaves
filling in for the bureau chiefs of other networks when they were overseas
the prime minister will find out just how much stomach the Japanese people
have for the kind of harsh medicine he wants
them to take. Peter Hadfield CNN Tokyo. A national BBC
program called the John Dunn show asked me to do a weekly Q&A
in 1994 John brought the whole show to Japan
oasis in the heart of Tokyo and joining me here is the man who's been our eyes
on Japan for so long and to whom I've spoken so often on the
phone Peter Hadfield hello Peter wonderful to see you hello John yes nice
to see you in the flesh in the flesh tell me about this imperial when John
Dunn retired in 1998 sadly the legendary broadcaster died a
few years after that the BBC bundled me off to radio 2's
Katrina Liskanich show to do a similar weekly Q&A. My
relationship with USA Today ended in about 1998
when US News and World Report offered me a position as their correspondent
at about the same time I ended my arrangement with the Daily Mail
and became Tokyo correspondent for the Sunday Telegraph. I continued reporting
after I moved to Australia in late 2001. They've been throwing everything they
can at this latest fire which has penetrated deep into suburban
Sydney in one area the flames up to 20 meters
high reached backyard fences before being turned by the wind
after a few minutes ghostly gray shapes are silhouetted against the trees
Glover switches off the engine trains his spotlight on the grazing kangaroos
and lifts his rifle he's sitting down feeding
straight through the head see instant death
some of these rescue children would be lucky enough to return to their home
countries and find work using the skills they acquired here at
Nontoburi others will have to cope with lingering
trauma and as often happens abuse from friends and relatives in the
24 years I've been reporting a lot has changed in the Far East
when I started most countries in the Far East were ruled by dictators
by the time I left they were flourishing democracies
China opened up Japan went from economic superpower to basket case
the last colonial outpost disappeared covering the region has been like
traveling through the pages of a history book
and helping write the text among the thousands of people I interviewed the
ones who impressed me most weren't the Hollywood celebrities or the politicians
the person who made the biggest impression on me was probably Han Dong
Fang who most people would never even have
heard of we spend so much time obsessed with the inconsequential lives of
celebrities that the courage and tenacity of really
extraordinary people go unnoticed but I won't climb onto this
hobby horse just yet this channel will continue to focus on
the accurate reading of science and in the new series I'll look at how the
media report science and why they so often get it wrong